xxxii PREFhCE.

as a body of disherited persons, rendered desperate by the
desperate state to which their fortunas were reduced. The
expression to which Ι allude is the term “ Exheredatos‚” by
which, and no other, the party is described when speaking of
the events of the following year*; and the same term is said
by Brady to be used by other Chroniclers when speaking of
them; and it occurs once at least in these rolls. Under these
circumstances it was, that the remains of the party of the
Barons entranched themselves in places which seem, in the
mode of warfare then in use, to have been thought most

favourable for defence, extensive marshes and swampa-the

Isle of Axhohne in the northern parts of Lincolnshire, and the
Isle of Ely.

The King was, however, determined to lose no advantage
whch promptness could in these circumstances give him. He
sent forces against those who were in Axholme 3 'and on the
Ides ‚of May 1266, he obtained a second victory over the

Barons, at Chesterfield‚ where the Earl of Ferrers was taken
prisoner.

Still there was a powerful force in arms against him. The
Castle of Kenilworth was held by a party who made a most
obstinate resistance3 and the fens of Ely were still occupied
by a numerous body of men, who osten made excursions into
the neighbouring counties, and who, on one occasion, advanced
even so far as Norwich. The King himself was with an

army, during tbe greater part of the summer of that year,
encamped before the castle of Kenilworth. '

Tm Pope had not been an unconcemed spectator of the
distractions from which England had so long been suffering. ’

t Annales Wavedeieusea--Gale, ii. 222.

 

